<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="LyX 2.3.0" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8" />
<title>LyX Document</title>
<style type='text/css'>
/* Layout-provided Styles */
h2.section_ {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: x-large;
margin-top: 1.3ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
text-align: left;

}
div.standard {
	margin-bottom: 2ex;
}
h5.paragraph {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: medium;
margin-top: 0.4ex;
text-align: left;

}
h3.subsection_ {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: large;
margin-top: 0.9ex;
margin-bottom: 0.5ex;
text-align: left;

}
h3.subsection {
font-weight: bold;
font-size: large;
margin-top: 0.9ex;
margin-bottom: 0.5ex;
text-align: left;

}
ol.enumerate {
margin-top: 0.7ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
margin-left: 3ex;
text-align: left;

}
div.bibliography {
	margin-left: 2em;
	text-indent: -2em;
}
span.bibitemlabel:before { content: "["; }
span.bibitemlabel:after { content: "] "; }
div.toc {
  margin: 2em 0em;
  border-style: solid;
  border-width: 2px 0px;
  padding: 1em 0em;
}
h2.tochead { font-size: x-large; font-weight: bold; }
div.lyxtoc-0 {
  margin: 2em 0em 0em 0em;
  font-size: xx-large;
  font-weight: bold;
}
div.lyxtoc-1 {
  margin: 1em 0em 0em 0em;
  font-size: x-large;
  font-weight: bold;
}
div.lyxtoc-2 {
  margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 1em;
  font-size: large;
  font-weight: normal;
}
div.lyxtoc-3 { margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 0.5em; font-size: medium; }
div.lyxtoc-4 { margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 0.5em; }
div.lyxtoc-5 { margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 0.5em; }
div.lyxtoc-6 { margin: 0em 0.1em 0em 0.5em; }
a.tocentry {
  text-decoration: none;
  color: black;
}
a.tocentry:visited { color: black; }


</style>
</head>
<body dir="auto">
<h2 class="section_" id='magicparlabel-1'># The Truth About [Google,Facebook,Microsoft,Apple,Amazon,etc]</h2>

<div class='toc'><h2 class='tochead chapter'>Table of Contents</h2>


<div class='lyxtoc-1'><div class='lyxtoc-2'><a href='#magicparlabel-1' class='tocentry'># The Truth About [Google,Facebook,Microsoft,Apple,Amazon,etc]</a>
</div>

<div class='lyxtoc-2'><a href='#magicparlabel-15' class='tocentry'># Open Source Software</a>
</div>

<div class='lyxtoc-2'><a href='#magicparlabel-25' class='tocentry'># Open Source Software Library</a>
</div>
</div>

<div class='lyxtoc-1'><a href='#magicparlabel-26' class='tocentry'>Bibliography https://thehackernews.com/2016/02/microsoft-windows10-privacy.html</a>
</div>
</div>

<h5 class="paragraph" id='magicparlabel-3'><span class="paragraph_label"></span> Evil software mega-corporations have been taking advantage of us for decades.</h5>
<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-4'>Google breaks its motto, 'Don't be Evil.' FB does [REDACTED]. Fundamentally, money corrupts people blah blah.</div>
<h3 class="subsection_" id='magicparlabel-5'>## What is Proprietary Software?</h3>
<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-6'>Proprietary software is any software which is copyrighted by a company or individual and does not release its &lt;abbr title=&rdquo;'Source code' is the programming code written by programmers that can be converted into executable files, like .exe files in Windows&rdquo;&gt;source code&lt;/abbr&gt; under a &lt;abbr title=&rdquo;Permissive licenses allow you to do what you wish with the software or source code. Well known licenses include the GNU GPL and the MIT licenses.&rdquo;&gt;permissive license.&lt;/abbr&gt; Some examples of proprietary software include Microsoft Windows, Photoshop, Facebook, and Google Chrome. Proprietary software is usually sold for profit (like Photoshop), released as a free (as in money) service in exchange for user information (like Google), or sold and used for information harvesting (like Microsoft Windows.)</div>

<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-7'>Whilst there is a wealth of ethically developed proprietary software, many of the most commonly known large software companies (like Google, Facebook, and Microsoft) are extremely exploitative and take advantage of their users through information harvesting, extremely high prices and intrusive targeted advertising. There are many dangers to this kind of proprietary software.</div>
<h3 class="subsection_" id='magicparlabel-8'>## The Cost of Proprietary Software</h3>
<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-9'>Most people can only name one or two search engines, image editors, operating systems, word processors, web browsers, and only a small handful of social media networks. Once you've made software, you can just copy it as many times as you want. This means you can easily make a monopoly in a software market. This is excellent for the pockets of technology company executives, but not good for consumers and entrepreneurs. Because there aren't any companies to compete with, companies can jack up the prices for their software to whatever prices they wish, and consumers can do very little about it.</div>

<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-10'>In the case of Microsoft Windows, very few users know of any alternatives other than macOS, which is often dismissed as too expensive, so Microsoft can do whatever they want to their customers. Recently, Microsoft started adding targeted advertisements to the Start Menu of their already costly operating system, charging monthly subscription fees to remove ads from Microsoft Solitaire and Minesweeper,[<a href='#LyXCite-key_7'><span class="bib-numericallabel">6</span></a>] and now have irremovable snooping tools that send Microsoft details about everything from your computer hardware to the amount of photos you have viewed in their 'Photos' application in the past day. In one report, a Windows 10 installation configured to transmit as little data as possible to Microsoft sent 5500 messages to Microsoft owned servers in a single day[<a href='#LyXCite-key_1'><span class="bib-numericallabel">1</span></a>, <a href='#LyXCite-key_2'><span class="bib-numericallabel">2</span></a>]. Also, as you can no longer disable forced updates, so you are totally at the mercy of whatever Microsoft throws at you.</div>

<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-11'>As well as Windows, the various services Google offers spy on users to an unacceptable degree. **<b>Google stores every search you ever make, the link to every website you ever visit in Google Chrome; and in other browsers, browsing history and analytics from millions of websites.</b>** Google Analytics, a 'free' service that aggregagtes various statistics such as page views, location heatmaps, <em>*and even aggressive gender and age predictions*</em> for every user, has its code embedded in millions of major websites, meaning that even without a Google account, using a browser other than Google Chrome, Google can still generate a comprehensive list of websites you visit and create targeted advertisements based on them. Google has even taken it to the next level, and created entire operating systems, ChromeOS and Android, that have spyware integrated into the operating systems themselves. It has gotten to the point where using Google products is mandatory for use in classrooms Don't be mistaken - Google is an advertising company, not a search engine, not a cloud service provider, not an operating system developer.</div>

<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-12'>Some software, like Photoshop, isn't renowned for spying or targeted advertising, but rather comes with a massive up-front cost. Adobe Photoshop costs $240 per year[<a href='#LyXCite-key_12'><span class="bib-numericallabel">8</span></a>] (in USD) for a license, and Microsoft's Visual Studio (code editor) costs $539, also per year.[<a href='#LyXCite-key_11'><span class="bib-numericallabel">7</span></a>] This locks out a massive market of users, like students and people in the third world who can't afford these software pacakges. Also, because of patent law surrounding software, companies can patent broad concepts and create a monopoly that cannot legally be broken. This leads to software like Adobe Photoshop being classed as 'industry standards' which raise the bar even higher for many potential users, as they can't get a job without a license and extensive knowledge of the software.</div>
<h3 class="subsection_" id='magicparlabel-13'>## What Can I Do?</h3>
<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-14'>The best thing you can do to stop companies like Google, Microsoft and Facebook from becoming even worse than they already are is to stop using their products, and transition to using free and open source software. This comes with a myriad of benefits, including not being subjected to the unethical pratices of major software corporations, and saving a significant amount of time and money, with the added bonus of equally good software.</div>
<h2 class="section_" id='magicparlabel-15'># Open Source Software</h2>
<h3 class="subsection_" id='magicparlabel-16'>## What is Open Source Software?</h3>
<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-17'>Open Source means that the source code of a software package is publicly available and free for anyone to use. Some well known examples of open source software include Firefox, VLC, Linux, and MediaWiki, the software that powers Wikipedia. When people talk about open source software, or free software, they are usually talking about Free and Open Source Software (abbreviated as FOSS.) The term 'Free Software' is something of a misnomer, as it is free as in freedom, not as in price (although it is almost always both.) This is why free software is so powerful; you as the user have freedom to use, modify, and distribute the software. Note that the terms "Free software", "FOSS" and "Open Source Software" are used interchangeably.</div>
<h3 class="subsection" id='magicparlabel-18'><span class="subsection_label"></span> ## Why use Open Source?</h3>

<ol class="enumerate" id='magicparlabel-19'><li class="enumerate_item">**Open source software is essential as it respects the user.** Because anyone can view the source code, *anyone can audit free software* to ensure that proper security measures are taken and that no malicious code is present, and *many free software advocates do.* The GNU/Linux and BSD operating systems are <em>used *extensively by many major technology companies*</em> (including Microsoft[<a href='#LyXCite-key_3'><span class="bib-numericallabel">3</span></a>]) for their servers, as they are extremely fast and secure. Because many more people view the source code than in proprietary software settings, *bugs and security flaws are found much more quickly, and often patched within hours.*</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">**Open source software is often much faster and supports many more platforms than proprietary software.** Because anybody can contribute to free software projects, *anyone can optimise and improve software to make it run on older hardware, or even different operating systems.* Porting software to another operating system often requires minimal effort, and anyone who wishes to extend support for free software to their platform can easily do so; where they otherwise might have to open a support ticket for proprietary software and get a response along the lines of their feature request being denied due to lack of interest.</li>
<li class="enumerate_item">**Open source software does not spy on you.** With the rise of advertising companies like Google, privacy can be a massive concern. Google's Chrome browser sends browsing history and usage statistics to Google, and uses that data for targeted advertising. Not only is this exploiting users, but if the security of a firm like Google were compromised, everyone's data would be compromised too. Additionally, because data-aggregation firms do not release the source code or even details of their security mechanisms, you can never be sure who to trust. *Over 5 billion online accounts are known to have been compromised because of poor security practices in proprietary software.*</li>
</ol>
<h3 class="subsection_" id='magicparlabel-22'>## Common Questions</h3>
<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-23'>**<b>Why do people create free software?</b>** There are many reasons for creating free software. Many programmers, myself included, enjoy programming. Some people write and maintain free software projects for professional reasons. Some people write free software because they are fed up with the inadequacies of outdated or poorly designed proprietary software. Some write free software to give back to the community. As Richard Stallman (creator of the Free Software Foundation and GNU) says, &ldquo;There is no shortage of professional musicians who keep at it even though they have no hope of making a living that way.&rdquo;[<a href='#LyXCite-key_5'><span class="bib-numericallabel">5</span></a>] A great article on the motives of writing free software is available [here](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/fs-motives.html)</div>

<div class="standard" id='magicparlabel-24'>**<b>How can free software possibly rival proprietary software?</b>** In addition to professional and amateur programmers working on free software in their spare time, many people are sponsored or paid full time to write free software by corporations in need of better software. Some, like the maintainers of the Linux Mint operating system, receive enough donations to live off. The Red Hat Linux operating system is FOSS and commercial at the same time, as they make money from tech support. Even if only 1 in 100 000 people write free software as a hobby, that's 76 000 people.[<a href='#LyXCite-key_4'><span class="bib-numericallabel">4</span></a>] The amount of people who are able to benefit from free software is massive; and often companies will sponsor free software projects that they depend on for their products and services to function. For example, the developer of (Tiled)[http://www.mapeditor.org/], a FOSS map editor for video game development, receives almost $2000 a month from donations,[<a href='#LyXCite-key_13'><span class="bib-numericallabel">9</span></a>] enough to fund two working days a week development for it.</div>
<h2 class="section_" id='magicparlabel-25'># Open Source Software Library</h2>
<h2 class='bibliography'>Bibliography</h2>

<div class='bibliography'><div class="bibliography" id='magicparlabel-26'><a id='LyXCite-key_1' />
<span class='bibitemlabel'>1</span>https://thehackernews.com/2016/02/microsoft-windows10-privacy.html</div>

<div class="bibliography" id='magicparlabel-27'><a id='LyXCite-key_2' />
<span class='bibitemlabel'>2</span>https://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2015/08/even-when-told-not-to-windows-10-just-cant-stop-talking-to-microsoft/</div>

<div class="bibliography" id='magicparlabel-28'><a id='LyXCite-key_3' />
<span class='bibitemlabel'>3</span>https://www.wired.com/2015/09/microsoft-using-linux-run-cloud/</div>

<div class="bibliography" id='magicparlabel-29'><a id='LyXCite-key_4' />
<span class='bibitemlabel'>4</span>http://www.worldometers.info/world-population/</div>

<div class="bibliography" id='magicparlabel-30'><a id='LyXCite-key_5' />
<span class='bibitemlabel'>5</span>http://www.linfo.org/manifesto.html</div>

<div class="bibliography" id='magicparlabel-31'><a id='LyXCite-key_7' />
<span class='bibitemlabel'>6</span>https://www.pcworld.com/article/3039827/windows/7-ways-windows-10-pushes-ads-at-you-and-how-to-stop-them.html</div>

<div class="bibliography" id='magicparlabel-32'><a id='LyXCite-key_11' />
<span class='bibitemlabel'>7</span>https://www.visualstudio.com/vs/pricing/</div>

<div class="bibliography" id='magicparlabel-33'><a id='LyXCite-key_12' />
<span class='bibitemlabel'>8</span>https://www.adobe.com/creativecloud/plans.html?single_app=photoshop</div>

<div class="bibliography" id='magicparlabel-34'><a id='LyXCite-key_13' />
<span class='bibitemlabel'>9</span>https://www.patreon.com/bjorn</div>
</div></body>
</html>
