#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass book
\begin_preamble
\usepackage[hidelinks]{hyperref}
\usepackage{xcolor}
\definecolor{linkblue}{HTML}{0077CC}
\hypersetup{
  colorlinks   = true, %Colours links instead of ugly boxes
  urlcolor     = blue, %Colour for external hyperlinks
  linkcolor    = linkblue, %Colour of internal links
  citecolor   = red    %Colour of citations
}
\usepackage{listings}
\lstset{language=Python}
\usepackage{minted}
\renewcommand{\theFancyVerbLine}{\ttfamily \textcolor[RGB]{0,0,0}{\normalsize \oldstylenums{\arabic{FancyVerbLine}}}}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "Liberation Sans"
\font_sans "default" "Liberation Sans"
\font_typewriter "default" "DejaVu Sans Mono"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1in
\topmargin 1in
\rightmargin 1in
\bottommargin 1in
\secnumdepth 0
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip 1.5theight%
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
The Truth About [Google,Facebook,Microsoft,Apple,Amazon,etc]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Evil software mega-corporations have been taking advantage of us for decades
 now blah blah.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Google breaks its motto, 'Don't be Evil.' FB does [REDACTED].
 Fundamentally, money corrupts people blah blah.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
What is Proprietary Software?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Any software which does not disclose its source code under a permissive
 license is considered proprietary software.
 Some examples are Google, Google Chrome, Facebook, Photoshop, Microsoft
 Windows, and macOS.
 Proprietary software is usually sold for profit, or released as a free
 (as in money) service in exchange for user information.
 Whilst there is a wealth of ethically developed proprietary software, many
 of the most commonly known software companies are exteremely exploitative
 and take advantage of their users.
 There are many dangers to this kind of proprietary software.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
The Cost of Proprietary Software
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Due to the easily-reproducible nature of software, software companies which
 create unique products are easily able to create a monopoly.
 From many user's perspectives, there is only one search engine, only one
 image editor, and only a small handful of social media networks and operating
 systems.
 This is excellent for the pockets of technology company executives, but
 not good for consumers and entrepreneurs.
 As is to be expected with a monopoly or oligarchy, companies can jack up
 the prices for their software to whatever they wish, and consumers can
 do very little about it.
 In the case of Microsoft Windows, very few users know of any alternatives
 other than macOS, so Microsoft can do whatever they want to their customers.
 Recently, Microsoft started adding targeted advertisements to the Start
 Menu of their already costly operating system, and now have irremovable
 snooping tools that send Microsoft details about everything from your computer
 hardware to the amount of photos you have viewed in their 'Photos' application
 in the past day.
 In one report, the smallest possible amount of separate messages you can
 configure Windows to send to Microsoft is in the 5000s.
 Also, you can no longer disable forced updates, so you are totally at the
 mercy of whatever Microsoft throws at you.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As well as Windows, the various services Google offers spy on users to an
 unacceptable degree.
 Google stores every search you ever make, the link to every website you
 ever visit in Google Chrome, and in other browsers, analytics from millions
 of websites.
 Google Analytics, a 'free' service that measures various statistics such
 as page views and location heatmaps, has its code embedded in millions
 of major websites, meaning that even without a Google account, using a
 browser other than Google Chrome, Google can still generate a comprehensive
 list of websites you visit and create targeted advertisements based on
 them.
 Google has even taken it to the next level, and created entire operating
 systems, (ChromeOS, Android and the unfinished mess Fuschia) that have
 spyware integrated into the operating systems themselves.
 Don't be mistaken - Google is an advertising company, not a search engine,
 not a cloud service provider, not an operating system development firm.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Some software, like Photoshop, isn't renowned for spying or targeted advertising
, but rather comes with a massive up-front cost.
 Adobe Photoshop and Microsoft's Visual Studio (code editor) each cost upwards
 of $1000 per year for a license.
 This locks out a massive market of users in the third world who can't afford
 these software pacakges.
 Also, because of patent law surrounding software, companies can patent
 broad concepts and create a monopoly that cannot legally be broken.
 This leads to software classed as 'industry standards' which raise the
 bar even higher for many potential users.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Proprietary software doesn't respect its users.
 It takes advantage of users and spies on them, advertises relentlessly
 to them, and alienates people from poorer backgrounds and societies.
 If only there was a solution...
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
What Can I Do?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The best thing you can do to stop companies like Google, Microsoft and Facebook
 from becoming even worse than they already are is to stop using their products,
 and transition to using free and open source software.
 This comes with a myriad of benefits, including not being subjected to
 the unethical pratices of major software corporations, and saving a significant
 amount of time and money, with the added bonus of equally good software.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Next: What is Open Source?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
What is Open Source Software?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Open Source means that the source code of a software package is publicly
 available and free for anyone to use.
 Some well known examples of open source software include Firefox, Linux,
 and MediaWiki, the software that powers Wikipedia.
 There are two main types of open source software.
 Some open source software is proprietary, meaning you must obtain a license
 to use it commercially.
 This type of software is not considered to be 'open source' by many, as
 the source code is not truly open for anyone to use as they wish.
 Usually, when people talk about open source software, they are talking
 about Free and Open Source Software (abbreviated as FOSS.) Note that the
 terms "Free software", "FOSS" and "Open Source Software" are used interchangeab
ly.
 Free software is free as in freedom, not just free as in price.
 In order to be classed as truly free software, a software package must
 follow the four freedoms, listed below.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
The Four Freedoms
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
• The freedom to run the program as you wish, for any purpose.
 • The freedom to study how the program works, and change it so it does
 your computing as you wish.
 Access to the source code is a precondition for this.
 • The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help your neighbour.
 • The freedom to distribute copies of your modified versions to others.
 By doing this you can give the whole community a chance to benefit from
 your changes.
 Access to the source code is a precondition for this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Why Use Open Source Software?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Open source software is essential as it respects the user.
 Because anyone can view the source code, anyone can audit free software
 to ensure that proper security measures are taken and that no malicious
 code is present, and many free software advocates do.
 The GNU/Linux and BSD operating systems are used extensively by many major
 technology companies for their servers, as they are extremely fast and
 secure.
 Because many more people view the source code than in proprietary software
 settings, bugs and security flaws are found much more quickly, and often
 patched within hours.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Open source software is often much faster and supports many more platforms
 than proprietary software.
 Because anybody can contribute to free software projects, anyone can optimise
 and improve software to make it run on older hardware, or even different
 operating systems.
 Porting software to another operating system often requires minimal effort,
 and anyone who wishes to extend support for free software to their platform
 can easily do so; where they otherwise might have to open a support ticket
 for proprietary software and get a response along the lines of their feature
 request being denied due to lack of interest.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Open source software does not spy on you.
 With the rise of advertising companies like Google, privacy can be a massive
 concern.
 Google's Chrome browser sends browsing history and usage statistics to
 Google, and uses that data for targeted advertising.
 Not only is this exploiting users, but if the security of a firm like Google
 were compromised, everyone's data would be compromised too.
 Additionally, because data-aggregation firms do not release the source
 code or even details of their security mechanisms, you can never be sure
 who to trust.
 Over 5 billion online accounts are known to have been compromised because
 of poor security practices in proprietary software.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Free software is free.
 While companies like Adobe charge approximately $1000 a year for Photoshop,
 free software projects like Krita and the GNU Image Manipulation Program
 (GIMP) are completely free.
 It is extremely expensive for students and educational institutions to
 pay for software licensing, and free software can save people all over
 the world thousands of dollars.
 There is a massive variety of free software alternatives which are as good,
 or often better than their proprietary alternatives.
 Some other great examples of free software alternatives are Blender, a
 FOSS 3D modeller, Audacity, a FOSS audio editor, Krita, a FOSS image editor
 and painting tool, and KDenLive, a FOSS video editor on par with iMovie.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection*
On "Software Communism"
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Bill Gates is known to pass the Free Software movement as 'software communism.'
 This term perfectly describes the free software movement.
 There is one slight difference between the world of software and the 'real'
 world.
 Unlike the real world, software takes almost no effort to reproduce; once
 you have written the source code for a piece of software (the blueprint,)
 infinite versions of the software can be copied and distributed worldwide.
 This means that so called 'software communism' is actually possible, as
 there is an infinite supply of resources.
 However, proprietary software companies take advantage of their customers
 by charging high prices despite the infinite supply of program copies.
 By creating free software to compete with their proprietary equivalents,
 we can bring down the prices and force companies performing unethical spying
 to desist at the risk of losing their customers.
 By using free software, we are not only encouraging proprietary software
 companies to behave ethically, we are also getting high quality community
 built software for free!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Skeptical?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Why do people create free software? Many reasons.
 Many programmers, myself included, enjoy programming.
 Some people write and maintain free software projects for professional
 reasons.
 Some people write free software because they are sick of the inadequacies
 of proprietary software.
 Some write free software to give back to the community.
 A great article on the motives of writing free software is available on
 the Free Software Foundation's website at https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/fs-motiv
es.html
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How does software developed without funding become as useful as commercialised
 software? Many people are sponsored or paid full time to write free software
 by corporations in need of better software.
 Some, like the maintainers of the Linux Mint operating system, receive
 enough donations to live off.
 Many people who are skeptical of open source software don't recognise the
 generosity of many people.
 Even if only 1 in 10 000 people writes free software as a hobby, that's
 70 000 people.
 The amount of people who are able to benefit from free software is massive,
 and often corporations will sponsor free software projects that they depend
 on for their products and services to function.
 There are multiple entire families of operating systems that are entirely[1]
 free and open source.
 Ubuntu GNU/Linux, Linux Mint, Fedora, openSUSE, Arch Linux, Gentoo GNU/Linux,
 FreeBSD, OpenBSD and hundreds of other derivatives are all built by the
 free software community.
 If you doubt their security, consider OpenBSD, which has had 2 security
 vulnerabilities in its decades long history.
 Firefox, a fully featured FOSS browser, is built by the non-profit organisation
 Mozilla, and is better than Chrome in every way[2].
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
1: Aside from some proprietary drivers for wifi cards and the likes 2: Firefox
 is faster than Chrome, uses less memory than Chrome, uses less battery
 than Chrome, uses less storage space than Chrome, and does not spy on you
 like Chrome.
 It supports all of the browser standards that Chrome does, and more.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Open Source Software Library
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Microsoft Office Suite, Google Docs/Slides/Sheets: LibreOffice Suite, OpenOffice
 Suite Microsoft Windows: GNU/Linux, FreeBSD Google: DuckDuckGo, StartPage
 Google Drive, OneDrive, Dropbox: SpiderOak, ownCloud, Nextcloud, Syncthing,
 IPFS Google Docs: Etherpad Youtube: D.Tube, Newpipe, Hooktube, youtube-dl
 Photoshop: Krita, GNU Image Manipulation Program Google Drawings: Inkscape
 Visual Studio: CodeBlocks, Notepad++, Atom Google Chrome, Internet Explorer,
 Microsoft Edge: Firefox, Waterfox, Qutebrowser iMovie etc: KDenLive GMail:
 self-hosted, cock.li Evernote: Cherrytree Whatsapp, Facebook Messenger,
 Discord: Riot, IRC, Matrix, XMPP Google Classroom: Moodle Outlook: Thunderbird
 Calendar: blank Google Earth: KDE Marble
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Other free software: Blender, Audacity, LMMS, Calibre, MineTest, Anki, Tiled
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Spotlight
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Firefox Web Browser Features: - Great battery life - Extremely fast - No
 spying Replaces: Chrome, Edge, IE, Safari Supported on: Linux, Windows,
 macOS, Android, iOS
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
LibreOffice Office Suite Features: - Supports importing and exporting Microsoft
 Office documents - Boasts a word processor, spreadsheets, slideshow presentatio
ns, designing tool, math formula editor, and a database - Very fast Replaces:
 Microsoft Word, Powerpoint, Excel, Publisher Supported on: Linux, Windows,
 macOS
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Krita Image Editor Features: - Photoshop-like interface - Supports many
 image formats - Excellent drawing tool Replaces: Adobe Photoshop Supported
 on: Linux, Windows, macOS Alternatives: GNU Image Manipulation Program
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
GNU/Linux Operating System Family Features: - Unrivalled security[except
 by OpenBSD] - Runs extremely well on old hardware - Enormous range of choices
 - No spying - Doesn't cost a dime - Supports a massive amount of software
 (Steam, many games, all open source software, and proprietary software
 that isn't officially supported, like Photoshop, can be run through WINE,
 a wrapper that allows you to run Windows applications in Linux.) - Did I
 mention how secure it is? - Very user friendly - Accessible - Supports
 many languages Replaces: Microsoft Windows, macOS Alternatives: FreeBSD,
 OpenBSD
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Riot Internet Messaging Features: - Offers encrpyted chat - Supports group
 chats and direct messages - Voice and video calls - Integrated widgets
 - Supports image and file uploads - Supports rich text - Integrates with
 IRC Replaces: Whatsapp, FB messenger, Discord, other stuff Alternatives:
 Signal Private Messenging
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Blender 3D Modelling
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thunderbird KDE Marble Inkscape Notepad++/Notepadqq Atom GIMP KDenLive Moodle
 Etherpad Newpipe LineageOS Signal Private Messenger
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
More ethical alternatives
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
ProtonMail - ****ing amazing DuckDuckGo, Startpage - great Spideroak - great
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
More Information
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
fsf.org, gnu.org etc
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
